# Axians Camel Spring Boot Parent

This is the über parent for all Maven based Camel Spring Boot projects in Axians Netherlands. It contains the common settings and plugins for all projects.

## Usage
To use this parent, add the following to your project's `pom.xml`:
```xml
<parent>
    <groupId>nl.axians</groupId>
    <artifactId>axians-camel-spring-boot</artifactId>
    <version>1</version>
</parent>
```

You can update the Spring Boot and Camel versions by overriding the `spring-boot.version` and `camel.version` properties.

The default Java version being used is 21. You can override this by setting the `maven.compiler.source`, `maven.compiler.target` and `maven.compiler.release` properties in your project's `pom.xml`. To use Java 17 for example you can add the following properties in your `pom.xml`:
```xml
<properties>
    <maven.compiler.source>17</maven.compiler.source>
    <maven.compiler.target>17</maven.compiler.target>
    <maven.compiler.release>17</maven.compiler.release>
</properties>
```
The default encoding is UTF-8. You can override this by setting the `project.build.sourceEncoding` and `project.reporting.outputEncoding` properties in your project's `pom.xml`. To use ISO-8859-1 for example you can add the following properties in your `pom.xml`:
```xml
<properties>
    <project.build.sourceEncoding>ISO-8859-1</project.build.sourceEncoding>
    <project.reporting.outputEncoding>ISO-8859-1</project.reporting.outputEncoding>
</properties>
```

## Profiles
The following profiles are available:
- `release` - This profile is used to release the project. It will enable the `maven-release-plugin` to create and deploy a release of your project. It will also activate the `maven-javadoc-plugin` to generate the Javadoc and the `maven-source-plugin` to attach the source code to the release.


- `qa` - This profile is used to run the quality analysis tools. It will enable the following plugins:
  - `dependency-check-maven` to check for OWASP vulnerabilities.
  - `jacoco-maven-plugn` to analyse test coverage.
  - `sonar-maven-plugin` to perform SonarQube code analysis.
  - `owasp-sonar-maven-plugin` to transform the OWASP vulnerabilities report generated by the `dependency-check-maven` to a format that can be uploaded to SonarCloud.

## License
This project is licensed under the Apache License 2.0. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE.md) file for details.


